# Extracted from 8.pdf

*Total pages: 14*

---

## Page 1

Trajectory Design Employing Convex Optimization for Landing
on Irregularly Shaped Asteroids
Robin M. Pinson∗
NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, Alabama 35812
and
Ping Lu†
San Diego State University, San Diego, California 92182
DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045
The problem under investigation is how to rapidly design a propellant optimal powered descent trajectory to land a
spacecraft on an arbitrarily shaped asteroid, subject to realistic constraints on the trajectory and thrust magnitude,
and a gravity model applicable to irregularly shaped asteroids. For a given time of flight, the problem is solved byfinding the solutions to a sequence of convex optimization problems. A univariate optimization method is wrapped
around the convex optimization problem to determine the optimal flight time that yields the overall lowest propellant
usage. This solution methodology is robust and reliable. It does not require a user-supplied initial guess and no trialand error in selecting problem parameters. The strengths of this method are demonstrated by extensive numericalresults by designing the propellant optimal trajectories for landing on the elongated binary asteroid Castalia.
I. Introduction
MISSION proposals that land spacecraft on asteroids are
becoming increasingly popular. However, in order to have a
successful mission the spacecraft must reliably and softly land at the
intended landing site with pinpoint precision. The problem under
investigation is how to design a propellant optimal powered descenttrajectory that can be quickly computed onboard the spacecraft,without interaction from ground control. An optimal trajectorydesigned immediately before the powered descent burn has manyadvantages. These advantages include the ability to use the actualvehicle state as the initial condition in the trajectory design and theease of updating the target landing site. For long trajectories, the
trajectory can be updated periodically by a redesign of the optimal
trajectory based on current vehicle conditions to improveperformance. One of the key drivers for being completelyautonomous is the infrequent and delayed communication betweenthe ground control and the vehicle. Challenges that arise fromdesigning an asteroid powered descent trajectory includecomplicated nonlinear gravity fields associated with irregularshapes, small rotating bodies, and the low thrust of the vehicle. There
are many factors that will not be well understood until the spacecraft
reaches the asteroid; therefore, it is imperative to make the trajectorydesign algorithm adaptive to account for the updated information.
The propellant (fuel) optimal control problem in this work is to
determine the optimal thrust vector (both magnitude and direction) toland the spacecraft at a specified location, in the presence of a highlynonlinear gravity field and subject to various mission and operationalconstraints. Based on the original nonlinear and nonconvex
formulation for a fixed final flight time problem, this paper
formulates a sequence of second-order cone programs, which areconvex optimization problems. Included is a discussion on asteroidgravity models and their incorporation into the convex optimizationformulation. Relaxation techniques, investigation on the equivalence
of optimal solutions, and a successive solution method are all used to
generate the final optimization problem that can be solved with aconvex optimizer. Then, the investigation will focus on finding theoptimal flight time, which results in minimum propellant usage over
all flight times. Triaxial ellipsoidal asteroids (which have a simpler
gravity model) are used to first investigate the trends in the optimaltrajectories. The full methodology is demonstrated by finding
optimal landing trajectories on the binary asteroid Castalia. Earlier
work by the authors in [1] focused on the initial problem developmentand only the triaxial ellipsoidal asteroids.
There have been two successful spacecraft landings on asteroids
and one on a comet. Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous (NEAR) wasthe first successful asteroid landing when it landed on Eros. Four
braking maneuvers were executed over a 50-min period to target a
specified velocity decrease. The spacecraft impacted earlier thanexpected in the range of 1.5–1.8 m∕s, slightly larger than the planned
1.3 m∕simpact velocity [2]. Because of malfunctioning equipment,
Hayabusa was painstakingly guided to a point near the landing sitefrom ground control, even with a 20-min communication delay.Close to the surface, landing target markers were dropped to the
surface and Hayabusa rendezvoused with the markers to successfully
reach the surface [3]. Rosetta ’s lander Philae followed a ballistic
trajectory down to the comet ’s surface [4].
There are a handful of proposed missions to asteroids whose
landing algorithms and missions are still being finalized. Most rely onballistic trajectories or ground designed trajectories and waypoints.
The lander MASCOTrelies on the primary spacecraft to drop down to
100 m altitude and then MASCOT free falls to the surface for theMarco Polo and Hayabusa-2 missions [5,6]. OSIRIS-REx has a
checkpoint and a matchpoint at which maneuvers will be performed.
These are targeted maneuvers, which are adjusted onboard to accountfor differences between the originally designed points and the actual
spacecraft conditions at those points. The last maneuver at the
matchpoint is 8 min before touchdown at 45 m altitude and slows thedescent velocity [7].
Since the asteroid powered descent trajectory design is a relatively
new topic of study, there are a number of proposed methods and ideas
in development, all with advantages and disadvantages. Thetrajectory design and related guidance algorithms are both studied, as
some methods forgo trajectory design and focus entirely on closed
loop guidance efforts. One proposed approach to the rapid generationof the descent trajectory is a semi-analytical approach [8], which
assumes that the acceleration profile is a cubic polynomial. Given the
acceleration profile shape with known initial and final points, theproblem is solved analytically except for three parameters: time of
Presented as Paper 2016-5378 at the 2016 AIAA Space Forum, Long
Beach, CA, 13 –16 September 2016; received 9 May 2017; revision received
23 September 2017; accepted for publication 7 November 2017; publishedonline 31 January 2018. Copyright © 2017 by the American Institute of
Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc. All rights reserved. All requests for
copying and permission to reprint should be submitted to CCC atwww.copyright.com; employ the ISSN 0731-5090 (print) or 1533-3884(online) to initiate your request. See also AIAA Rights and Permissionswww.aiaa.org/randp.
*Aerospace Engineer, Guidance, Navigation and Mission Analysis
Branch, EV42; Robin.M.Pinson@nasa.gov.
†Professor and Chair, Department of Aerospace Engineering; plu@mail.
sdsu.edu. Fellow AIAA.
Article in Advance / 1JOURNAL OF GUIDANCE ,CONTROL ,ANDDYNAMICS
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 2

flight, initial thrust, and initial thrust angle. Combining these with
path constraints yields a nonlinear program. A second approach fordesigning the descent trajectory focuses on extracting information
from the optimal control theory problem formulation. An indirect
method that propagates and solves the costates, boundary conditions,and differential equations is combined with a direct method thatoptimizes the original cost function. This combination decreases thecomputation time as compared with the purely direct method [9]. A
time optimal asteroid landing problem is investigated in [10], where
the thrust magnitude is assumed to always be at a single level. As suchthe problem is considerably simpler than a fuel optimal problemwhere multiple switchings of the optimal thrust magnitude betweenits upper and lower bounds are likely.
Variations on using sliding mode control techniques as a guidance
algorithm for the descent trajectory are found in several places. Onemethod uses multiple sliding surfaces to drive the spacecraft to thelanding site in a finite amount of time [11]. Other proposals use a
predesigned trajectory and apply variations on sliding mode control
theory to counteract disturbances while tracking the trajectory [12,13].One proposed method of predesigning the trajectory is to apply ahomotopic and successive solution technique while solving the stateand costate differential equations via a shootout method [12].
There are two previous studies that form the background to the
current investigation. The first study looked in-depth at applying convexoptimization to a powered descent trajectory on Mars with promisingresults [14,15]. This showed that the powered descent equations of
motion can be relaxed and formed into a convex optimization problem
and that the optimal solution of the relaxed problem is indeed a feasiblesolution to the original problem. This analysis used a constant gravityfield, which is a poor approximation for an asteroid. In addition, theinclusion of thrust pointing constraints, while achieving lossless
convexification, was examined in [16]. The second study applied a
successive solution process to formulate a second-order cone programthat designs rendezvous and proximity operations trajectories. Thisalgorithm included a Newtonian gravity model. The equivalence of the
solutions between the relaxed and the original problem was theoretically
established [17]. Convex optimization had great success in the abovestudies and the focus of this analysis i s the applicability to the asteroid
powered descent problem.
Convex optimization is a class of optimization problems that
includes many subclasses. It has been studied for the last hundred years;
however, it has become popular in industry during the last 25 years withgreat success. Applications of convex optimization in industry includeestimation and signal processing, modeling statistics, finance, and
automatic control systems. A convex optimization problem can be
solved reliably and efficiently. If the problem is feasible, then the globaloptimal can be found in a finite number of steps. If the problem isinfeasible, then no solution is possible. Convex optimization includesthe subclasses of linear program, second-order cone program (SOCP),
quadratic program, and least squares. There are publicly and
commerciallyavailablesolvers for convex optimization problemsalongwith numerous published methods [18]. If an optimization problem canbe formulated as a convex optimization problem, it can be easily solved.The challenge is to turn a nonlinear optimization problem into a convex
optimization problem.
II. Propellant Optimal Powered Descent Formulation
A. Asteroid Gravitational Models
Asteroids come in a wide variety of sizes and shapes, which are
rarely spherical. Therefore, the standard gravity models of constant
gravity and Newtonian gravity that are good approximations in
powered descent algorithms on Earth, Moon, and Mars are poormodels for an asteroid powered descent mission. This insufficiencywas shown through analysis that designed the trajectory with these
models and then simulated the vehicle flight using a higher fidelity
gravity model. The vehicle did not reach the asteroid surface in themajority of cases (see [19]). The best gravity model for an asteroid isstill a hotly researched topic with a wide range of models under studyand new models being published on a regular basis.For a homogenous triaxial ellipsoid, a good starting model is the
2×2spherical harmonics model (maximum degree and order of 2).
This is a readily available model (see [20]). The spherical harmonicsgravitational model ( ∇U/.0133r/.0134) for all degrees and order is listed in
Eqs. (1 –3). The equations of motion for the propellant optimal
problem are in a Cartesian coordinate system, whereas the spherical
harmonics model is in the spherical coordinate system. Therefore, the
partials of the gravitational potential with respect to the sphericalcoordinates, Eq. (2), and the partials of positionvector in the spherical
coordinate system ( r,δ,λ) with respect to the position vector in the
Cartesian coordinate system ( r
x,ry,rz), Eq. (3), are required.
∂U
∂rx/.0136∂U
∂r∂r
∂rx/.0135∂U
∂δ∂δ
∂rx/.0135∂U
∂λ∂λ
∂rx
∂U
∂ry/.0136∂U
∂r∂r
∂ry/.0135∂U
∂δ∂δ
∂ry/.0135∂U
∂λ∂λ
∂ry
∂U
∂rz/.0136∂U
∂r∂r
∂rz/.0135∂U
∂δ∂δ
∂rz/.0135∂U
∂λ∂λ
∂rz(1)
∂U
∂r/.0136XN
l/.01360Xl
m/.01360−/.0133l/.01351/.0134μ
r2/.0018r0
r/.0019l
Pl;m/.0137sinδ/.0138fCl;mcos/.0133mλ/.0134/.0135Sl;msin/.0133mλ/.0134g
∂U
∂δ/.0136XN
l/.01360Xl
m/.01360μ
r/.0018r0
r/.0019l
fCl;mcos/.0133mλ/.0134/.0135Sl;msin/.0133mλ/.0134g∂Pl;m/.0137sinδ/.0138
∂δ
∂U
∂λ/.0136XN
l/.01360Xl
m/.01360μ
r/.0018r0
r/.0019l
mPl;m/.0137sinδ/.0138f−Cl;msin/.0133mλ/.0134/.0135Sl;mcos/.0133mλ/.0134g
(2)
∂r
∂rx/.0136rx
r;∂r
∂ry/.0136ry
r;∂r
∂rz/.0136rz
r
∂δ
∂rx/.0136−rxrz
r2/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129
r2x/.0135r2yq ;∂δ
∂ry/.0136−ryrz
r2/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129
r2x/.0135r2yq ;
∂δ
∂rz/.01361/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129
r2x/.0135r2yq/.0018
1−r2z
r2/.0019
∂λ
∂rx/.0136−ry
r2x/.0135r2y;∂λ
∂ry/.0136rx
r2x/.0135r2y;∂λ
∂rz/.01360 (3)
The gravitational model depends on associated Legendre functions
(Pl;m/.0137sinδ/.0138) and the gravitational coefficients ( Cl;m,Sl;m). The
gravitational coefficients are determined for each asteroid. For a 2×2
model, N/.01362in Eq. (2).
The homogenous triaxial ellipsoidal assumptions of constant
density and symmetry around the axes causes the only nonzero
coefficients to be the Cl;mcoefficients that have an even landm.
Included is the assumption that the coordinate system origin is located
at the asteroid ’s center of mass and the axes are aligned with the semi-
major axes. The homogeneous triaxial ellipsoidal model was used inthe algorithm proof-of-concept test before transitioning to even higher-
fidelity models. The homogeneous, ellipsoidal shape, and axis
alignment and placement assumptions can be removed by including all
the spherical harmonic gravitational coefficients in the expansion and
calculating the coefficients based on high-fidelity shape models.
Unfortunately, there is an underlying implicit assumption in the
spherical harmonics gravity model. It assumes that the mathematicalseries representing the gravitational field converges to the actual
gravitational field. If the point where the field is evaluated is outside
the maximum radius of mass distribution for the asteroid, this
assumption is valid, but when a point is evaluated inside this
maximum radius the mathematical series diverges from the truegravitational field. The sphere circumscribing the asteroid mass is
called the Brillouin sphere. An example of the Brillouin sphere with
an irregularly shaped asteroid is shown in Fig. 1. The spherical
harmonics potential model is valid outside of the Brillouin sphere.2 Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 3

Inside the Brillouin sphere a different model must be used. The more
irregularly shaped the asteroid, or the deeper the valleys near thelanding site, the worse the divergence [21,22].
A wide range of gravitational models pertaining to asteroids have
been published over the last few decades, with new ones appearingevery couple of years. Some of the more widely recognized modelsare the homogeneous polyhedron [23,24], mascon model [22,24],and several interior models [21,25].
The polyhedron method is considered to be the most accurate
model and is used as the benchmark for comparing new gravitymodels to determine their accuracy. However, this is a verycomputationally expensive proposition for an entire trajectory, aseach trajectory point would require tens of thousands of calculations.This model is best suited on the ground with fast computers andadequate time to design the trajectory, but it is not suitable for a flight
computer and the need for rapid trajectory design. Therefore, it is not
a candidate for the autonomous powered descent trajectory design.Another feature of the polyhedron method is that it can be used todetermine the coefficients for the spherical harmonics expansionmodel and the interior gravity models [23,24].
The best choice for a gravity model that balances computational
complexity and accuracy is to use a full 4×4spherical harmonics model
[N/.01364in Eq (2)] outside the Brillouin sphere and transition to the
interior spherical Bessel gravity model at the sphere and inside theBrillouin sphere. The interior spherical Bessel gravity model is valid
inside the Brillouin sphere down to the asteroid surface. A brief overviewof the interior spherical Bessel gravity model is found in Eqs. (4 –7). For
definition of the terms, for example, /.0022ℱ
1/.0133n; m /.0134,/.0022ℱ2/.0133n; m /.0134,/.0022ℱ3/.0133n; m /.0134,
please see the model published in its original form in [25].
The gravitational acceleration is calculated in Eq. (4). It is a
summation series over the l—power, n—degree, and m—order. A bar
over a variable indicates that the associated value has been normalized.
∂U
∂rx/.0136μ
RbX∞
l/.01360X∞
n/.01360Xn
m/.01360Re/.0020∂
∂x/.0133/.0022βn;m/.0133αl;n/.0134/.0134/.0021
/.0022Al;n;m
/.0135Im/.0020∂
∂x/.0133/.0022βn;m/.0133αl;n/.0134/.0134/.0021
/.0022Bl;n;m
∂U
∂ry/.0136μ
RbX∞
l/.01360X∞
n/.01360Xn
m/.01360Re/.0020∂
∂y/.0133/.0022βn;m/.0133αl;n/.0134/.0134/.0021
/.0022Al;n;m
/.0135Im/.0020∂
∂y/.0133/.0022βn;m/.0133αl;n/.0134/.0134/.0021
/.0022Bl;n;m
∂U
∂rz/.0136μ
RbX∞
l/.01360X∞
n/.01360Xn
m/.01360Re/.0020∂
∂z/.0133/.0022βn;m/.0133αl;n/.0134/.0134/.0021
/.0022Al;n;m
/.0135Im/.0020∂
∂z/.0133/.0022βn;m/.0133αl;n/.0134/.0134/.0021
/.0022Bl;n;m (4)
The normalized gravitational coefficients /.0022Al;n;mand /.0022Bl;m;nare asteroid
specific, similar to the Cl;mandSl;min the spherical harmonics model.
As the acceleration vector must be real, the imaginary basis vector isparsed into its real and imaginary portions, represented by ReandIm.
The basis function in Eq. (5) relies on associated Legendre functions(P
n;m) and spherical Bessel functions ( jn). The eigenvalue of the
spherical Bessel function is represented by αl;n.
/.0022βn;m/.0133αl;n/.0134/.0136jn/.0018αl;nr
Rb/.0019
/.0022Hn;m (5)
/.0022Hn;m/.0136/.0026
Nn;mPn;m/.0137sin/.0133ϕ/.0134/.0138eimλn≥m≥0
0o t h e r w i s e(6)
The partial derivatives of the basis function with respect to the position
vector in the Cartesian coordinate system are located in Eq. (7).
∂
∂x/.0016
/.0022βn;m/.0133αl;n/.0134/.0017
/.01368
>>>>>>>>>>>>>><
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>:−
αl;nrx
Rbrjn/.01351/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
/.0022Hn;0
−2/.0022ℱ1/.0133n; m /.01341
rjn/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
Nn−1;1Pn−1;1/.0137sin/.0133ϕ/.0134/.0138cosλ m/.01360
−αl;nrx
Rbrjn/.01351/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
/.0022Hn;m−/.0022ℱ1/.0133n; m /.01341
rjn/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
/.0022Hn−1;m/.01351/.0135
/.0022ℱ2/.0133n; m /.01341
rjn/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
/.0022Hn−1;m−1 m> 0
∂
∂y/.0016
/.0022βn;m/.0133αl;n/.0134/.0017
/.01368
>>>>>>>>>>>>>><
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>:−
αl;nry
Rbrjn/.01351/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
/.0022Hn;0
−2/.0022ℱ1/.0133n; m /.01341
rjn/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
Nn−1;1Pn−1;1/.0137sin/.0133ϕ/.0134/.0138sinλ m/.01360
−αl;nry
Rbrjn/.01351/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
/.0022Hn;m/.0135/.0022ℱ1/.0133n; m /.01341
rjn/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
i/.0022Hn−1;m/.01351/.0135
/.0022ℱ2/.0133n; m /.01341
rjn/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
i/.0022Hn−1;m−1 m> 0
∂
∂z/.0016
/.0022βn;m/.0133αl;n/.0134/.0017
/.0136−αl;nrz
Rbrjn/.01351/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
/.0022Hn;m/.0135/.0022ℱ3/.0133n; m /.01341
rjn/.0020αl;nr
Rb/.0021
/.0022Hn−1;m (7)
Fig. 1 Brillouin sphere surrounding an irregularly shaped asteroid.Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU 3
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 4

The summation series truncation used for the analysis is to a
maximum power of 2 and degree and order of 5, based on the
recommendation of the model ’s developers. Coefficients are developed
using the available asteroid information, such as a polyhedron model.
The fidelity of the models used to develop the coefficients will
determine the maximum available degree, order, and power, along with
the quantity of terms necessary to yield a specific accuracy.
The similarity between the spherical harmonics and the spherical
Bessel models is one reason why this model was chosen as the
gravity model inside the Brillouin sphere. When the coefficients for
both models are derived together from the corresponding polyhedron
model, there will be a seamless transition between the two models.
However, in the case where the coefficients are not derived from the
same source, the powered descent algorithm works fine with a small
discontinuity in gravitational acceleration at the Brillouin sphere.
The spherical Bessel model is a very accurate model as compared
with other gravity models, bar the polyhedron model. The error for
Bennu (near spherical) was less than 5%, whereas Castalia (elongated
binary) was less than a 10% error, when compared with thepolyhedron model. Since the interior spherical Bessel model is
significantly less computationally intensive than the polyhedron, it
makes a good candidate for onboard the spacecraft, given that it can
achieve similar accuracy to the polyhedron model.
The 2×2and4×4combined with the Bessel gravity models are
functions of the spacecraft position vector and the coefficients
associated with the asteroid. As seen above, the position components
are numerous and highly nonlinear. The gravity model will
generically be referred to as ∇U/.0133r/.0134in the optimization problem
formulation. One interesting item to note is that all of the gravity
models can be separated into a dominant term and remaining higher-
order terms. For the 2×2and4×4the dominant term is the degree
and order of 0 term, which simplifies to the standard Newtoniangravity model, −/.0133μ∕r
3/.0134r. The dominant term for the Bessel model is
the summation over the powers with degree and order 0, which
contains three terms for the three powers.
B. Nonlinear Optimization Problem
The propellant optimal soft landing problem is a two-point
boundary value problem, as the initial vehicle state is known along
with the targeted landing site. Minimizing propellant usage for a fixed
flight time ( tf) is the optimization portion. This is achieved by
maximizing the mass of the vehicle when it touches down [Eq. (8)],
thus minimizing propellant consumption. The optimization problem
is stated in Eqs. (8 –16), referred to as problem P1.
min−m/.0133tf/.0134 (8)
subject to
_r/.0136v (9)
_v/.0136T
m−2ω×v−_ω×r−ω×/.0133ω×r/.0134/.0135∇U/.0133r/.0134 (10)
_m/.0136−1
vexkTk (11)
Tmin≤kTk≤Tmax (12)
kr−rfkcosθ−/.0133r−rf/.0134T^n≤0 (13)
m≥mdry (14)
r/.01330/.0134/.0136r0; v/.01330/.0134/.0136v0;m /.01330/.0134/.0136mwet (15)
r/.0133tf/.0134/.0136rf; v/.0133tf/.0134/.0136vf;t fgiven (16)The equations of motion, Eqs. (9) and (10), are expressed in an
asteroid fixed (rotating) Cartesian coordinate system with the originat the center of the mass of the asteroid. The state vector consists of
the vehicle position vector ( r), the vehicle ’s asteroid relative velocity
vector ( v), and the vehicle mass ( m). The vehicle ’s initial state is
represented by r
0,v0, and mwet, whereas the final vehicle state (the
landing site) is represented by rfandvf. As the asteroid is rotating,
landing sites not located on the asteroid rotation axis ( ω)h a v ea
nonzero velocity due to the asteroid ’s rotation. Once the engine has
been turned on it is throttleable between a minimum ( Tmin) and
maximum ( Tmax) thrust and cannot be turned off until the descent
burn is complete, Eq. (12). The right-hand inequality constraint inEq. (12) is convex and a valid inequality for a convex optimizationproblem, whereas the left inequality is not. Along with the vehicle ’s
thrust range, the vehicle exit velocity ( v
ex) is required for the mass
flow rate calculation. The constraint in Eq. (13) is called a glide slopeconstraint. Initially, the angle θis set at 90.0 deg to prevent the
spacecraft from going below the surface of the asteroid. The unit
vector normal to the landing site is ^n. The final constraint, Eq. (14), is
to ensure that the trajectory does not use more than the availablepropellant, as m
dryis the mass of the vehicle when all propellant has
been consumed.
Problem P1 is nonconvex. The nonconvex terms are the norm of
the thrust vector, dividing by the mass, and the gravitationalacceleration. Therefore, these terms will be handled with a variety of
techniques to create a convex optimization problem.
III. Lossless Convexification
Initially, two techniques are applied to problem P1 to turn the
problem into a convex optimization problem. The first is a relaxation
of the problem by introducing a slack variable and the second
technique is a change of variables. Ultimately, the goal is to achievelossless convexification, where the solution to the convex problem isindeed a minimal point of the original problem.
A slack variable, T
m, representing the thrust magnitude, is chosen
to be the fourth control variable to supplement T[14,16]. In the
optimization problem this variable is separate from the thrust vectorand only related through a new second-order cone constraint,
Eq. (17).
kTk≤T
m (17)
The optimization problem is now formulated as problem P2, located
in Eqs. (18 –27). The boxes highlight the differences between
problems P1 and P2.
min−m/.0133tf/.0134 (18)
subject to
_r/.0136v (19)
_v/.0136T
m−2ω×v−_ω×r−ω×/.0133ω×r/.0134/.0135∇U/.0133r/.0134 (20)
m=−1
vexTm (21)
T≤Tm (22)
Tmin≤Tm≤Tmax (23)
kr−rfkcosθ−/.0133r−rf/.0134T^n≤0 (24)4 Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 5

m≥mdry (25)
r/.01330/.0134/.0136r0; v/.01330/.0134/.0136v0;m /.01330/.0134/.0136mwet (26)
r/.0133tf/.0134/.0136rf; v/.0133tf/.0134/.0136vf;t fgiven (27)
Proposition: Problems P1 and P2 are identical when the inequality
in Eq. (22) is active, that is, kTk/.0136Tm. Moreover, the solution to
problem P2 is the same as the solution to (minimum of) problem P1.
Proof: For brevity of the proof, the glide slope constraint Eq. (24)
is removed. The first part of the proposition is straightforward. It isimmediately clear that when the constraint in Eq. (25) is active,problem P2 reduces to problem P1. To prove the second part of the
proposition, apply the minimum principle from optimal control
theory and form the Hamiltonian, Eq. (28).
H/.0136p
Trv/.0135pTv/.00181
mT−2W1v−W2r−W3r/.0135∇U/.0133r/.0134/.0019
−pm1
vexTm
W1/.01362
6640−ω
zωy
ωz 0−ωx
−ωyωx 03
775W
2/.01362
6640−_ω
z_ωy
_ωz 0−_ωx
−_ωy_ωx 03
775
W
3/.01362
664−ω2y−ω2z ωxωy ωxωz
ωxωy−ω2x−ω2z ωyωz
ωxωz ωyωz−ω2x−ω2y3
775(28)
The states are r,v,m, and the corresponding costates are p
r,pv,pm.
The control vector Cconsists of the thrust vector and slack variable,
along with the constraints on the control vector as described inEq. (29).
C/.0136f /.0133T;T
m/.0134jkTk≤Tm;Tmin≤Tm;Tm≤Tmaxg (29)
From Optimal Control Theory, the differential equations for the
costates are listed in Eqs. (30 –32).
_pr/.0136WT
2pv/.0135WT
3pv−pTv∇2U/.0133r/.0134 (30)
_pv/.0136−pr/.01352WT
1pv (31)
_pm/.0136pTvT/.00181
m2/.0019
(32)
The problem is a fixed final time problem. Applying the end point
constraints and the transversality conditions yields one usefulequation, Eq. (33).
p
m/.0133tf/.0134/.0136−1 (33)
From Minimum Principle, the optimal solution is determined by
minimizing the Hamiltonian with respect to the control vector C
subject to the constraints in Eq. (29). The Hamiltonian is linear interms of the control vector, and therefore the minimum will be on the
boundary of the admissible control set. This can be turned into a
constrained optimization problem, which minimizes the Hamiltonianby applying the Kasrush –Kuhn –Tucker (KKT) conditions. First,
the terms in the Hamiltonian expression that are not dependent on thecontrol vector can be removed from the optimization problem,as they have no effect on the solution. These terms arep
Trv/.0135pTv/.0133−2W1v−W2r−W3r/.0135∇U/.0133r/.0134/.0134. It is interesting to note
that as long as the gravitational potential remains solely a function of
spacecraft position, it does not influence the minimization of the
Hamiltonian. Therefore, both the 2×2and the 4×4combined with
spherical Bessel models are included in the proof.The point-wise minimization problem with respect to T,Tmis
stated in Eq. (34).
min1
mpTvT−1
vexpmTm
s:t:kTk≤Tm;T min≤Tm;T m≤Tmax (34)
The Lagrangian for the constrained optimization problem is listed in
Eq. (35).
ℒ/.01361
mpTvT−1
vexpmTm/.0135λ1/.0133kTk−Tm/.0134/.0135λ2/.0133Tmin−Tm/.0134
/.0135λ3/.0133Tm−Tmax/.0134 (35)
The variables λ1,λ2,λ3are the Lagrange multipliers associated with
the inequality constraints on T,Tm. From the KKT conditions, a
constraint is active when λi≥0, whereas a constraint can only be
inactive when λi/.01360. Applying the KKT conditions yields Eqs. (36)
and (37).
∂ℒ
∂T/.01361
mpv/.0135λ1T
kTk/.01360 (36)
∂ℒ
∂Tm/.0136−1
vexpm−λ1−λ2/.0135λ3/.01360 (37)
Now examine the problem as two specific cases: when pvis
nonzero almost everywhere (a.e.) in /.01370;tf/.0138and when it is zero in a
finite time interval. Suppose that pv≠0for any finite time interval.
From Eq. (36), when T≠0, then λ1must be nonzero ( λ1≠0);
otherwise, Eq. (36) necessitates pv/.01360because vehicle mass is
nonzero, thus contradicting the assumption that pv≠0. When
T/.01360,T∕kTkis a finite vector. The same argument then applies to
ascertain that λ1≠0. Therefore, the corresponding constraint must
be active, kTk/.0136Tm. Consequently, the solution to problem P2 is
also the solution to problem P1.
Next, look at the case when pv/.01360for a finite time period. If
pv/.01360in a finite time interval, its derivative must also be zero
simultaneously. From the costate equations in Eqs. (30 –32), this
implies that pr/.01360andpmis a constant. Because the costate
equations are a homogeneous linear system in prandpv, it follows
thatpr/.0136pv/.01360in the entire interval /.01370;tf/.0138, andpmis constant [26].
From the transversality condition in Eq. (33), pm/.0133t/.0134/.0136−1. The
Hamiltonian reduces to Eq. (38).
H/.01361
vexTm (38)
The minimum of the Hamiltonian with respect to Cis the smallest
admissible Tm, which is Tmin>0, and therefore Tm/.0136Tmin. Thus
the Hamiltonian becomes Eq. (39).
H/.01361
vexTmin (39)
Ifpv/.01360in a finite interval, the constancy condition of the
Hamiltonian due to the autonomous system dynamics should always
hold, regardless of the initial conditions, landing site, or the specified
final time, tf. In particular, if the value of tfhappens to be equal to
t/.0003
f—the optimal flight time in a free time problem, which is the same
as problem P2 except that the final time is free —the Hamiltonian is
zero along the optimal trajectory from Minimum Principle.
The nonzero constancy condition in Eq. (39) then constitutes acontradiction in this case. Therefore, the condition that p
v/.01360in a
finite interval cannot happen. Since this case is invalid, the case of
pv≠0a.e. on /.01370;tf/.0138is the only possibility, which in turn means that
kTk/.0136Tmin the solution to problem P2. This solution is also the
solution to problem P1 [27].Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU 5
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 6

The next step after the slack variable introduction is to employ two
different types of variable changes. The first changes all thrust variablesinto acceleration due to thrust through the conversion seen in Eq. (40).
The second introduces a new mass variable defined in Eq. (41).
a
t/.0136T
m;a tm/.0136Tm
m(40)
q/.0136ln/.0133m/.0134; _q/.0136−atm
vex(41)
The cost function will find the maximum of this new mass variable, as
the maximum mass at the landing site corresponds to the maximumofq, due to the properties of the natural log function.
With these variable changes Eq. (23) becomes two nonlinear
inequalities. As in [14], the Taylor ’s series expansion will be applied
to approximate the nonlinear nonconvex constraints by a second-order cone constraint and a linear constraint, which are both convex.
The new constraints are in Eq. (42), where the left side is a second-
order Taylor series and the right side a first-order Taylor series. Spotchecking shows the deviation /.0133q−q
o/.0134is on the order of a few grams,
which ensures the validity of the Taylor series approximations.
Tmine−qo/.01371−/.0133q−qo/.0134/.01350.5/.0133q−qo/.01342/.0138≤atm≤Tmaxe−qo/.01371−/.0133q−qo/.0134/.0138
(42)
The point about which the expansion occurs ( qo) is calculated ahead
of time. It is the expected mass at the same time in the trajectory, if the
vehicle has been running at minimum thrust for the entire flight.
After the relaxation and the variable change, the optimization
problem becomes problem P3 found in Eqs. (43 –53). The boxes
highlight the differences between problems P2 and P3.
min −q(tf) (43)
subject to
_r/.0136v (44)
˙= t−2 rr r a vv −×× − × ( × ) + ∇U( ) (45) ωω ωω
˙q=−1
vexatm (46)
(47)t atm≤a
(48) Tmine−qo1−(q−qo+.5q−qo)2≤atm 0)(
atm≤Tmaxe−qo[1−(q−qo)] (49)
kr−rfkcosθ−/.0133r−rf/.0134T^n≤0 (50)
q≥qdry (51)
(52) (0) = 0,(0) = 0,q(0) = ln ( mwet) vv rr
r/.0133tf/.0134/.0136rf; v/.0133tf/.0134/.0136vf;t fgiven (53)
Problem P3 is equivalent to problem P2 as long as the Taylor series
expansion is a close approximation. The optimal point for problem P3is the optimal solution of problem P2 and thus problem P1. With the
exception of the gravitational acceleration, the dynamics are linear instate and control and the constraints are linear or second-order cones,yielding a convex optimization problem. The gravitational accelerationterm will be handled via the successive solution method.
IV. Successive Solution Method
The trajectory dynamics equations, Eqs. (44 –46), in problem P3
are nonlinear, largely due to the nonlinear and complex gravitationalacceleration terms that are functions of the spacecraft position vector.To use convex optimization, all equality constraints (including thestate equations) must be linear. To this end, Eqs. (44 –46) may be
rearranged in the form of Eq. (54).
_x/.0136A/.0133r/.0134x/.0135Bu/.0135c/.0133r/.0134 (54)
The full state is represented by x/.0136/.0137r
T;vT;q/.0138Tand the control vector
byu/.0136/.0137aTt;atm/.0138T. All the nonlinear terms, that is, the gravitational
acceleration, are located in the matrix Aand vector c. The matrix A
and vector care functions of only the vehicle position vector.
The successive solution approach first proposed in [17] is adopted
and extended in this work to repeatedly approximate the nonlinear
dynamics in Eq. (54) with linear dynamics. Let r/.0133k−1/.0134be the position
vector of the vehicle in the ( k−1)th successive solution (which is a
function of time). Instead of Eq. (54), the dynamics used to find the(k)th solution are functions of the previous iteration ’s position vector,
as shown in Eq. (55).
_x
/.0133k/.0134/.0136A/.0133r/.0133k−1/.0134/.0134x/.0133k/.0134/.0135Bu/.0133k/.0134/.0135c/.0133r/.0133k−1/.0134/.0134 (55)
The simplest choice for the first solution is r/.01330/.0134/.0136r0(where r0is
the initial condition of the radius vector). Now with r/.0133k−1/.0134known as
an explicit function of time, the dynamics in Eq. (55) are linear andtime-varying (for k> 1). Each successive problem can now be
formulated and solved as a second-order cone program. Note that thelinear dynamics in Eq. (55) are not obtained by the traditionallinearization method based on first-order Taylor series expansions.When the successive solution sequence fx
/.0133k/.0134gconverges, the
dynamics in Eq. (55) are exactly the same as the original dynamics inEq. (54), with no approximations involved. The tolerance used in thisinvestigation to determine convergence is 0.5 m. A tighter tolerancecan be achieved at the cost of an increase in number of iterations.
Extensive analysis examined the placement of the gravitational
terms. The best placement in terms of the number of iterationsrequired for convergence and the ease of changing gravity models isto place the dominant term in Aand the remaining higher-order terms
inc[see Eq. (56)]. The dominant term is defined in Eq. (57).
A/.01362
6666666666666400 0 1 0 0 0
00 0 0 1 0 0
00 0 0 0 1 0
ω
2/.0135dom 0 0 0 2 ω00
0 ω2/.0135dom 0 −2ω 00 0
0 0 dom 0 0 0 000 0 0 0 0 03
77777777777775
B/.01362
666666666666664000 0
000 0000 0100 0010 0001 0
000 −
1
vex3
777777777777775c/.01362
6666666666666640
00
∂U
∂rx−dom
∂U
∂ry−dom
∂U
∂rz−dom
03
777777777777775(56)6 Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 7

dom /.01368
>>><
>>>:−μ
r32×2;4×4 model
α0;0j1/.0018α0;0r
Rb/.0019
/.0022A0;0;0/.0135α1;0j1/.0018α1;0r
Rb/.0019
/.0022A1;0;0/.0135α2;0j1/.0018α2;0r
Rb/.0019
/.0022A2;0;0Bessel model(57)
For the 2×2and4×4, the dominant term, dom, is the degree and
order of 0 term, which simplifies to the standard Newtonian gravity
model. The dominant term for the Bessel model is the summation
over the powers of degree and order 0, which contains three terms forthe three powers. In Eq. (56), the rotation vector ωin the equations of
motion is assumed to be along the asteroid /.0135Zaxis at a constant rate
ofω. Other rotation vectors can be accommodated by placing the
corresponding terms in A.
The equations of motion, while now linear, are in continuous time;
however, optimizers require the problem to be in discrete time points.To form a discrete system the problem is divided into nnumber of
time points with a fixed dttime step between each point. Trapezoidal
rule is used to propagate the trajectory between the points and is
arranged so that each point is a function of the previous point and the
coefficient matrices [see Eq. (58)].
x
j/.0136h
I−0.5dtA ji−1h
/.0133I/.01350.5dtA j−1/.0134xj−1
/.01350.5dt/.0016
Bjuj/.0135Bj−1uj−1/.0135c/.0135cj−1/.0017i
(58)
Each of the npoints is represented this way, with jbeing the current
point and j−1the previous point. The first point n/.01361is the initial
condition of the vehicle and thus known. This form replacesthe continuous dynamics in problem P3 as n−1additional equality
constraints levied on the problem.
In the analysis, a time step of 2.0 s was used. This was compared to
smaller time steps of 1.0 and 0.5 s, with negligible change in
propellant used and number of required iterations. The smaller timesteps increase the number of equality constraints levied on theproblem, thus increasing the number of calculations and simulationruntime. Two seconds yields good accuracy, while containing afourth of the number of equality constraints as the 0.5 s case. Care
should be taken to balance out the propagation accuracy and the
number of equality constraints. A smaller time step may be necessaryfor asteroids with large irregular shapes, in order to better capture thechanges in gravitational acceleration. If the flight time of thetrajectory is not exactly divisible by the fixed time step, the time stepwill be adjusted slightly to allow each time step to be identical.
As a final step, the algorithm variables were scaled to keep the
values near one and to keep any variable from having extra emphasisor weighting due to its magnitude. The optimization solver issensitive to scaling, so care must be taken when choosing the scalefactors. Scaling is important to ensuring good and consistent
convergence in all cases.
All distance parameters are scaled by R
sc, velocity by vsc,
acceleration by gsc, time by tsc, angular rate by ωsc, and thrust by Tsc,
as defined in Eq. (59). Variable names have not been changed toindicate scaled or not scaled. The scaled version of the variable is used
in the algorithm calculations when coded.
Rsc/.0136γ;v sc/.0136/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129
Rscgscp
;g sc/.0136μ
R2sc;t sc/.0136/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129
Rsc
gscs
ωsc/.0136/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129/.0129gsc
Rscr
;m sc/.01361;μsc/.0136μ;T sc/.0136gscmsc (59)
The distance scale factor is set to the smallest semimajor axis value
(γ), or an approximation of the shortest axis for irregularly shaped
asteroids. This choice is consequential, because it keeps the scaledradius to no smaller than unity, which in turn will prevent the position
terms, such as 1∕r
3, in the gravitational acceleration from becoming
very large values. When the largest semimajor axis was used, theiterations failed to converge on a single answer. The mass is not
scaled, as the natural log function acts as scaling function and keeps q
near one.
V. Optimal Flight Time Determination
The propellant optimal convex optimization problem discussed in
the previous sections assumed that a fixed flight time was given to the
algorithm. Ultimately, the algorithm should determine the optimal
flight time that yields minimum propellant usage over all flight times(t
/.0003
f). Parametric sweeps of flight time showed that propellant usage is
unimodal with respect to flight time (see Sec. VII for proof), which
means that a simple single-variable optimization method will easilyfind the optimal flight time. This is achieved by wrapping the convexoptimization problem with an outer optimization loop that minimizes
propellant with respect to flight time. Brent ’s method was selected as
the solver routine, as it only requires function evaluations of theconvex optimization loop. It does not require derivatives or anapproximation of the derivatives through differencing, which is
advantageous given the complexity of the inner loop ’s optimization
problem. For classes of functions that are twice differentiable near theminimum, of which the flight time is, Brent ’s method achieves
superlinear convergence [28].
The goal is to run this algorithm onboard the spacecraft; therefore,
computational time is a driving concern. Even though Brent ’s method
is near superlinear convergence, the convex optimization trajectory
design algorithm will need to be called 6 –10 times. To decrease
computational time, the discretization time step in the convexoptimization algorithm was increased in order to determine theoptimal flight time. Then, the inner loop trajectory design was
re-evaluated for the optimal flight time using the original smaller
discretization time step, yielding the final designed trajectory. A flowdiagram for this process is located in Fig. 2.
Fig. 2 Flow diagram for the outer loop interactions with the inner loop.Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU 7
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 8

Four discretization time steps were examined: 2, 5, 10, and 15 s.
The choice of the best time step is a balance of computational timeand required accuracy. The data examining these time steps for two
different landing sites, a North Pole and an Equatorial, on a generic
triaxial asteroid ( 1000×500×250 m ) are located in Table 1. Table 1
also includes the same analysis for the third landing site on the
asteroid Castalia. All three landing sites required seven function
evaluations of the inner optimization loop. As the time step increasesfrom 2 to 10 s, the required run time drops significantly to one third ofthe 2 s run time, with a change in optimal flight time of less than 1 s
and no difference in propellant usage. The increase to 15 s does not
decrease the run time significantly, while the difference in optimalflight time increases. A time step of 10 s for the initial calls to the inneroptimization loop is the best balance between accuracy and
computational speed.
VI. Simulation Setup
The algorithm formulated above was rigorously analyzed. A
testbed was programmed in Matlab using the publicly available
convex optimization package CVX.‡CVX is designed to handle a
wide range of convex optimization problems (see [29]). A toleranceof 0.5 m was used in the successive solution method to verify that thefinal trajectory and the trajectory immediately preceding it are close
enough for the gravity model representation. Smaller tolerances are
achievable at the cost of more iterations.
This is a three –degree-of-freedom analysis, so only the
translational motion is investigated. The vehicle is represented as a
point mass, without physical dimension. Only the basic vehicle
characteristics, mass, thrust, and Isp, are needed for the analysis. Thevehicle ’s mass is 1400 kg with 400 kg devoted to propellant. The
1000 kg of dry mass is devoted to vehicle structure and hardware
along with payload. The engines have an Isp of 225 s and range inthrust with a maximum of 80 N and a minimum of 20 N. While this isconsidered low thrust, additional analysis was completed with a
quarter of the original thrust, a maximum of 20 N, and a minimum of
5 N. These two thrust levels are sufficiently small to make theproblem challenging, along with being representative of typicalmission scenarios.
To show robustness, a variety of asteroid sizes, asteroid rotation
speeds, and landing sites were examined. Three homogenous triaxialellipsoidal asteroid sizes were examined: 1000×500×250 m (A1),
750×500×250 m (A2), and 500×500×250 m (A3). The three
asteroids are depicted in Fig. 3. The gravitational coefficients for atriaxial ellipsoidal asteroid can be calculated analytically (see [22]).The asteroids rotate at a constant spin rate along the /.0135Zaxis. Theamount of time that it takes for the asteroid to complete one revolution
is the rotation period. A period of 12, 8, 4, and 2 h were examined.These speeds are typical for asteroids.
Two landing sites were chosen for the triaxial ellipsoidal asteroid
to bound landing on the asteroid. The North Pole trajectory lands onthe/.0135Zaxis. The pole of the asteroid is where the gravitational
acceleration is the strongest, including the largest change of
gravitational acceleration over the trajectory. The North Pole landingsite is on the spin axis, so rotational effects are nonexistent. Thesecond landing site is located on the /.0135Xaxis, corresponding to an
Equatorial trajectory. This axis experiences the largest forces fromrotational effects, as it is the longest semimajor axis. Also, the landing
site does not stay at a fixed point in space and the trajectory end point
must match the landing site ’s rotational speed. The trajectories cover
1000 m in altitude from their initial starting conditions until reachingthe landing sites. As the asteroid size changes, the starting conditionsare based off the semimajor axes lengths. The initial conditions
located in Table 2 include uprange and out-of-plane position and
velocity components that will need to be eliminated. The analysis wasrepeated using a second set of initial conditions, where the vehiclestarts at a point directly over the landing site to indicate that it hadhovered above the site before the descent (see [19]).
To demonstrate with a real and irregularly shaped asteroid, the
asteroid 4769 Castalia was examined using the higher-fidelity gravity
model, 4×4combined with spherical Bessel. Castalia is an
elongated binary asteroid that has been under investigation over thelast 2 decades and has high-fidelity shape models, resulting indetermination of gravitational parameters. A mesh model
§shows the
asteroid shape along with the Cartesian coordinate system used in this
research (Fig. 4) [30]. To keep the orientation of the asteroid similar to
subsequent plots, the −Yaxis is shown with the /.0135Xand/.0135Zaxes in
the diagram. The rotation period is 4.07 h along the /.0135Zaxis. Castalia
is one of the asteroids used as a test of the spherical Bessel gravitymodel and has available coefficients for it [25] and the 4×4spherical
harmonics gravity model [31].Table 1 Time step comparisons for Brent ’s method
North Pole Equatorial Castalia LS3
Time step, s t/.0003
f, s Prop used, kg Run time, min t/.0003
f, s Prop used, kg Run time, min t/.0003
f, s Prop used, kg Run time, min
2 487.69 4.9228 21.3 512.08 5.2868 16.5 512.6 5.340 7.2
5 487.78 4.9228 13.4 512.29 5.2868 8.2 517.9 5.340 3.710 488.03 4.9228 7.0 512.87 5.2868 5.0 513.4 5.340 2.215 489.55 4.9228 6.3 514.10 5.2868 4.2 523.0 5.341 2.0
Fig. 3 Three asteroids under investigation. a) 1000×500×250 m ;b )750×500×250 m ;c )500×500×250 m .
Table 2 Initial conditions for the trajectories
r0x,m r0y,m r0z,m v0x,m∕sv0y,m∕sv0z,m∕s
North Pole −50 −50 1000 /.0135γ 210
Equatorial 1000 /.0135α−50 −50 021
γis the semimajor axis length corresponding to the Zaxis. αis the semimajor axis length
corresponding to the Xaxis.
‡http://cvxr.com/cvx/download/ v2.0 [released 12 September 2013].§http://sbn.psi.edu/pds/resource/rshape.html [accessed 17 March 2016].8 Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 9

Three landing sites on Castalia were analyzed and are referred to as
LS1, LS2, and LS3. The landing sites move away from pure polar and
equatorial sites due to the geometry of the asteroid and their locations.
The coordinates of the landing sites are listed in Table 3 and markedon the asteroid in Fig. 4 [25]. The velocity of the landing site is the
speed due to the rotation of the asteroid, listed in Table 3. The initial
locations of the vehicle were chosen to mirror the initial startingpoints for the ellipsoidal asteroids. The trajectories all start at an
altitude of 1000 m and include out of plane and uprange components
that are eliminated in order to land softly. The values for the initialvehicle states are located in Table 4. The analysis was repeated using
a second set of initial conditions, where the vehicle starts at a point
directly over the landing site to indicate that it had hovered above thesite before the descent (see [19]).VII. Testing
It was desired to show algorithm robustness by evaluating it with a
range of asteroids, starting with homogenous triaxial ellipsoidal
asteroids and then extending to the binary asteroid Castalia. The
binary asteroid Castalia is a good example of an irregularly shapedasteroid. It is long and flat, which invalidates the triaxial asteroidassumptions and the use of the 2×2gravitational model, especially
near the surface. The results will focus on Castalia, as it uses the more
complex gravity model and the triaxial ellipsoidal asteroid results
mirror the Castalia results. Trends with respect to asteroid shape, size,and speed were completed with the triaxial ellipsoidal asteroids.
A. Inner Optimization Loop
Parameter sweeps for the triaxial ellipsoidal asteroids were
performed by varying the flight time, while designing the optimaltrajectory for that flight time with the convex optimization method.Propellant usage as a function of flight time is shown in Figs. 5 –7.
The most important item to note is that propellant usage is unimodal
with respect to flight time, the key trait that allows the outer loop
optimization to be successful. Figure 5 compares the propellant usagefor the different asteroid sizes. For the North Pole trajectories, thesmaller the asteroid, the more propellant consumed during flight.This contrasts the Equatorial trajectory propellant consumption,
which is fairly insensitive to asteroid size. Figure 6 compares
propellant usage with respect to asteroid rotation period. The fasterrotation speeds for the Equatorial trajectories require morepropellant. The North Pole trajectory propellant consumption is
insensitive to the rotation speed as expected. The quarter thrust
trajectories showed similar trends. The Castalia flight time parametersweep for all three landing sites is shown in Fig. 7. Propellant usage issimilar between the three landing sites, despite the locations being ondifferent parts of the asteroid.
The successive solution process typically took 2 –5 iterations for
the ellipsoidal asteroids and 3 iterations for Castalia to design the
trajectory. The low number of required iterations shows stability in
the successive solution method. Overall, the Equatorial landing sitetended to use less iterations over the North Pole landing site. Therewere no noticeable trends with respect to asteroid size nor rotationspeed for the number of iterations required.
By using the convex optimization coupled with the successive
solution method, the thrust profile follows the bang-bang profile
dictated by the Optimal Control Theory. This bang-bang refers to the
thrust magnitude following the maximum or minimum thrust valueand then rapidly changing to the other thrust bound. The trajectoriesfell into three categories: max-min-max, max-min, and minimum forthe entire flight (all min). The shortest flight times followed the max-
min-max and the longest flight times were all min.
Table 5 contains the flight times corresponding to the switches
between the thrust profile categories for Castalia. The middle row
corresponds to the start of the max-min thrust profiles and the bottomrow corresponds to the switch to all min. The top line is the optimalflight time, smallest propellant usage. The optimal flight time occursbefore the switch to max-min, though less than 10 s before the switch.
Fig. 4 Asteroid Castalia showing the landing sites and the associated
coordinate system axes. Note: −Yis shown as opposed to /.0135Y.
Table 3 Castalia landing site coordinates and associated velocity
rfx,m rfy,m rfz,m vfx,m∕s vfy,m∕s vfz,m∕s
LS1 −345 −67 370 0.0287 −0.148 0
LS2 459 23.5 302 −0.0101 0.197 0
LS3 41.8 −348 −168 0.149 0.0179 0
Table 4 Initial conditions for the Castalia trajectories
r0x,m r0y,m r0z,m v0x,m∕sv0y,m∕sv0z,m∕s
LS1 −1066.1 −157.5 1060.6 1.097 −1.823 0.689
LS2 1323.3 18.2 809.8 −0.652 1.969 0.835
LS3 97.6 −1227.8 −645.3 2.037 −0.190 0.902
Fig. 5 Propellant usage parameters sweeps for the different asteroid sizes with a 2 h period. a) North Pole; b) Equatorial.Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU 9
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 10

Propellant usage is flat in this regime, so the difference in optimal
propellant usage and propellant usage at the switch to max-min is a
small fraction of a percent (see Table 6). The propellant usagedifference is within 3.5% between the all min and the optimal flighttime. However, the propellant usage becomes steeper at this point.Therefore, it is advantageous to ensure that the mission flight time isbefore the switch to all min.
A 400 s flight time for LS3 was designed, in order to fully
demonstrate a case that clearly designs the bang-bang thrust profile.The associated plots from this trajectory are located in Fig. 8. Thedifference between the acceleration slack variable and the magnitude
of the acceleration vector is less than 6.0×10
−5%, demonstrating
that the lossless convexification assumption is valid and the relaxedproblem is the original problem for the optimal solution.
B. Combined Outer and Inner Loop Optimization
As the ultimate goal is to design the optimal propellant trajectory
over all flight times and trajectories, the outer loop optimization(Brent ’s method) wrapped around the inner optimization algorithm
(CVX) was tested with the Castalia trajectories. For all sets oftrajectories, the full optimization method was successful. Table 7contains the optimal flight time and the corresponding propellantusage for that flight time. The last column is the number of times theinner loop designed a trajectory. Each of these inner loop executions
contained multiple iterations for the successive solution method. The
quarter thrust required more calls to the trajectory design loop thanthe full thrust.
The propellant optimal designed trajectories corresponding to the
optimal flight time for LS1, LS2, and LS3 are shown in Fig. 9.Figure 10 compares the magnitude of the velocity relative to thelanding site velocity, the thrust magnitude profile, a check on theslack variable, and the mass profiles for these three trajectories. Allthree trajectories have the max-min-max thrust profile, though the
final maximum thrust is only for a few seconds. The difference
between the slack variable and the magnitude of the accelerationvector is less than 1×10
−4%. The trajectory parameters for the
Fig. 6 Propellant usage parameters sweeps for the 1000×500×250 m asteroid comparing the different rotation speeds. a) North Pole; b) Equatorial.
Fig. 7 Propellant usage versus flight time for the three Castalia landing
sites.
Table 5 Flight times corresponding to optimal propellant
and thrust profile switches for the asteroid Castalia
LS1 LS2 LS3
Optimal prop 513 s 512 s 513 s
Start max-min 520 s 521 s 521 sStart all min 602 s 608 s 607 s
Table 6 Percent difference in mass from optimal
propellant case for the asteroid Castalia
LS1 LS2 LS3
Start max-min 0.02% 0.02% 0.01%
Start all min 2.75% 3.15% 3.04%
Fig. 8 LS3 trajectory for a flight time of 400 s. a) 3-D vehicle position; b) thrust magnitude; c) difference between the slack variable and the accelera tion
vector magnitude.10 Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 11

quarter thrust case are shown in Fig. 11, where the thrust magnitude
and velocity magnitude profiles show more variation between thethree landing sites as compared with the other cases.
VIII. Additional Trajectory Constraints
Following [15,16], two additional trajectory constraints were also
considered in the propellant optimal trajectory design problem and
analyzed. The first constraint keeps the vehicle directly above thelanding site with no lateral motion for the last few seconds of flight, oronly allows vertical motion. The second constraint is the glide slope
constraint. The original problem included a glide slope constraint;however, it was only used to ensure that the vehicle did not flysubsurface. Figure 12 depicts the glide slope constraint. It also
illustrates the solely vertical motionvia the spacecraft at the bottom of
the depiction.
A. Solely Vertical Motion Near the Landing Site Constraint
As the vehicle nears the landing site it is desirable and
advantageous for it to be directly over the landing site with the onlymotion being a change in altitude. This allows the vehicle to land
upright and removes tip over concerns. A new constraint was applied
that eliminated the lateral motion during the last seconds of flight,resulting in solely an altitude change.
The new constraint is applied as two new equality constraints.
First, the position vector from the landing site to the spacecraft isdetermined, Eq. (60).
r
ls/.0136r−rf (60)
This position vector, relative to the landing site, is used in the
constraint instead of the position vector from the asteroid center to theTable 7 Comparison of the optimal flight time, propellant used,
and number of inner loop executions for the Castalia trajectory
configurations
Optimal flight
time, sOptimal
prop used, kgNumber of inner
loop executions
LS1 512.86 5.31 7
LS2 512.27 5.34 7
LS3 513.35 5.34 7
LS1 quarter thrust 1052.0 3.39 10LS2 quarter thrust 1050.6 3.45 11LS3 quarter thrust 1075.6 3.44 9
Fig. 9 Optimal flight time trajectories landing on Castalia for a) LS1, b) LS2, and c) LS3.
Fig. 10 Optimal flight time trajectories landing on Castalia comparing the three landing sites. a) Velocity magnitude relative to the landing site; b ) thrust
magnitude; c) difference between the slack variable and the acceleration vector magnitude.
Fig. 11 Optimal flight time trajectories landing on Castalia comparing the three landing sites for the quarter thrust cases. a) Velocity magnitude re lative
to the landing site; b) thrust magnitude; c) difference between the slack variable and the acceleration vector magnitude.Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU 11
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 12

spacecraft as the vertical and horizontal vehicle motion is with respect
to the landing site. The new equality constraints are located inEq. (61).
r
T
ls^t1/.01360rT
ls^t2/.01360 (61)
The basis describing the plane tangent to the landing site is contained
in^t1and^t2. This can be any basis as long as the plane is completely
described. A zero dot product with the tangent plane requires themotion to be solely normal to the landing site plane, which onlyallows motion in the vertical direction.The North Pole trajectory with a 480 s flight time landing on the
1000×500×250 m asteroid with an 8 h period was analyzed. The
constraint was enforced during the last 6 s of flight and then during
the last 10 s. The end portion of flight is shown in Fig. 13, comparingthe trajectory without this constraint, and enforcing it for the last 6and 10 s. The trajectory shape within a 2 m altitude band above the
landing site differs greatly between the three trajectories. The
propellant usage changed very slightly between the three cases, withthe original case using 4.92 kg, the 6 s using 4.93 kg, and the 10 susing 4.94 kg. Addition of this constraint did not adversely affect the
successive solution convergence. The difference between the slack
variable and the acceleration vector was on the order of 4×10
−5%.
This shows that the optimal solution of the relaxed problem is still theoptimal solution of the original problem.
Problems arose when enforcing the solely vertical motion near the
landing site constraint for the Equatorial and Castalia trajectories.The low thrust of the vehicle (80 N) is not strong enough for the
vehicle to match the landing site ’s velocity, while removing the lateral
velocity. The velocity required to remain above the landing sitechanges with altitude. Originally, it was thought that the centripetalacceleration was the driver behind the vehicle being unable to
eliminate the horizontal motion near the landing site; however, this is
not the case [19].
Increasing the rotational period, which decreases both the landing
site velocity and the centripetal and Coriolis accelerations, allows theproblem to be solved. For the 1000×500×250 m Equatorial case,
the rotational period had to be increased to 92 h to enforce the vertical
constraint for the last 6 s of flight. An alternative to show that the
vehicle thrust is insufficient for the landing site velocity is to increasethe thrust of the vehicle until it successfully lands. The upper thrustbound must be increased to 920 N as compared with 80 N for the
1000×500×250 m asteroid with an 8 h period. A landing sitewith a
moderate velocity, such as the Equatorial or the Castalia landing sites,is not recommended if the vehicle needs to completely eliminatelateral motion near the landing site with a low-thrust vehicle.
B. Glide Slope Constraint
The glide slope constraint requires the vehicle to stay inside a cone
centered at the landing site as shown in Fig. 12. The cone is describedby the angle θmeasured from the vector normal to the landing site, ^n.
The constraint is applied in the second-order cone form given in
Eq. (62).
kr−r
fkcosθ−/.0133r−rf/.0134T^n≤0 (62)
This equation is part of the original problem formulation; however, it
was only used to prevent the vehicle from flying subsurface,corresponding to a θof 90 deg.
Fig. 12 Glide slope trajectory constraint depiction.
Fig. 13 End of the North Pole trajectory with a 480 s flight time landing
on a1000×500×250 m asteroid with an 8 h period without the vertical
constraint, with a 6 s constraint, and with a 10 s constraint. Origin is the
landing site.
Fig. 14 Angle from the landing site normal for the North Pole trajectory on 1000×500×250 m asteroid with a 480 s flight time.12 Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 13

As with the solely vertical motion near the landing site constraint,
the glide slope constraint worked well for the North Pole trajectories,while issues existed for Equatorial and Castalia. A North Pole
trajectory with a 480 s flight time landing on the 1000×500×250 m
asteroid with an 8 h period was run without the glide slope constraint(free, 90 deg), then with a 10 deg cone around the landing site, andfinally with a 5 deg cone. The plot in Fig. 14 compares the angle
between the landing site normal vector and the vehicle position
vector. The free trajectory had an angle greater than 15 deg for the last230 s of flight. When the 10 deg cone constraint is included, the entiretrajectory takes a different shape with the 10 deg limit only beingactive for a single point. For the 5 deg cone constraint, the trajectory
hovers near the 5 deg limit. The 3-D plot comparing the originaltrajectory to the 5 deg trajectory is located in Fig. 15. The dashed cone
represents a 5 deg cone around the landing site.
The relaxation proof did not include the glide slope constraint. The
difference between the acceleration slack variable and the magnitudeof the acceleration vector was less than 6.0×10
−3%. Thus, the
relaxation holds for these cases and it is reasonable to assume that it
will hold for other cases. Similar proofs including pointingconstraints, which are similar to the glide slope constraint, exist and
give confidence in lossless convexification with the glide slope
constraint [16].
Near the landing site the cone around the landing site narrows and
approaches the solely vertical motion near the landing site constraint.
Given this similarity, it is not surprising that the Equatorial and
Castalia cases encounter difficulties. To show that it is feasible toinclude the glide slope constraint and that this is a physical limitationof the vehicle and not a failure of method, the Castalia trajectories
were run two different ways with the glide slope constraint enabled.
The first run does not apply the constraint for the last 6 s of flight. Thisallows the vehicle to fly outside the cone near the landing site where
the constraint is extremely tight. The second run increased the vehicle
thrust and found that the thrust must be at least 320 N in order to fly a10 deg cone with the glide slope constraint applied.
A 500 s flight time trajectory was designed for these two options,
along with a trajectory without the glide slope constraint enabled. In
the legend, “Free”refers to the run without the constraint applied,
“Point ”refers to the run that did not apply the constraint near the
landing site, and “Thrust ”refers to the 320 N case. Figure 16
compares the angle between the vehicle position vector and the
landing site normal for LS2. The 3-D plot of the trajectory and the10 deg cone around the landing site is located in Fig. 17, with the zero
point corresponding to the landing site. The left plot is the entire
trajectory, whereas the right zooms in on the landing site. The vehiclepath stays near the cone boundary for most of flight for both of theconstrained trajectories, whereas the free trajectory exceeds the cone.
While it can be seen that the free trajectory deviates from the cone, the
trajectory that does not constrain the last points leaves the cone veryslightly, so slight that it is not visible. Therefore, it is feasible torefrain from constraining the last points and still get a trajectory that
does not significantly leave the cone around the landing site.
IX. Conclusions
This paper has shown that a propellant optimal trajectory for a soft
landing on an irregularly shaped asteroid can be rapidly and reliably
designed for a fixed flight time using convex optimization. In contrastto the soft landing problem on a planet with near-constant gravity, thegravitational potential model based on the standard Legendre
polynomial expansion of spherical harmonics may not even be
applicable for an irregularly shaped asteroid at low altitudes.Therefore, a major challenge is the nonlinearity in the propellantoptimal asteroid landing problem. This nonlinear optimal control
problem was cast into a relaxed problem through relaxation
Fig. 15 Comparison of trajectory without glide slope constraint (free)
and 5 deg cone glide slope constraint relative to the landing site for the
North Pole trajectory on a 1000×500×250 m asteroid with a 480 s flight
time.
Fig. 16 LS2: Angle from landing site normal with a 500 s flight time.
Fig. 17 Ten-degree cone from LS2 with a 500 s flight time. a) Entire trajectory; b) focused on the landing site.Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU 13
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

## Page 14

techniques. The optimal solution of the relaxed problem was
theoretically proven to be the optimal solution of the originalproblem. The relaxed problem was then solved by a successive
solution method as a sequence of second-order cone programs with
no user-supplied initial guesses. Because optimal propellant usage isshown to be unimodal with respect to flight time, an outer loop usingBrent ’s method was employed to determine the overall optimal flight
time. A key finding is that the method examined in this paper proves
to be applicable for increased levels of gravity model fidelity, as longas the gravitational model depends only on the spacecraft ’s position
vector. Convergence is always achieved with a small number of
successive solutions, whenever a solution exists. There is a balancebetween accuracy and computational speed in the methodology,which can be achieved through the tuning of step sizes and successive
solution tolerances. Findings also include the importance of properly
scaling the equations and the placement of the gravitational termsfor good methodology robustness. Through extensive numericalapplications, the proposed method is demonstrated to be a powerful
tool for rapid optimal trajectory design and feasibility studies subject
to various realistic and critical constraints. The high reliability,rapid convergence, and fully automated operation of this approach
are appealing characteristics for potential autonomous onboard
applications.
References
[1] Pinson, R., and Lu, P., “Rapid Generation of Optimal Asteroid Powered
Descent Trajectories via Convex Optimization, ”2015 AAS/AIAA
Astrodynamics Specialist Conference , AAS Paper 15-616, 2015,
pp. 2655 –2672.
[2] Dunham, D., Farquhar, R., McAdams, J., Holdridge, M., Nelson, R.,
Whittenburg, K., Antreasian, P., Chesley, S., Helfrich, C., Owen, W.,
Williams, B., Veverka, J., and Harch, A., “Implementation of the First
Asteroid Landing, ”Icarus , Vol. 159, No. 2, 2002, pp. 433 –438.
doi:10.1006/icar.2002.6911
[3] Yoshimitsua, T., Kawaguchia, J., Hashimotoa, T., Kubotaa, T., Uob, M.,
Moritab, H., and Shirakawab, K., “Hayabusa —Final Autonomous
Descent and Landing Based on Target Marker Tracking, ”Acta
Astronautica , Vol. 65, Nos. 5 –6, 2009, pp. 657 –665.
doi:10.1016/j.actaastro.2009.01.074
[4] Ulamec, S., and Biele, J., “Surface Elements and Landing Strategies for
Small Bodies Mission —Philae and Beyond, ”Advances in Space
Research , Vol. 44, No. 7, 2009, pp. 847 –858.
doi:10.1016/j.asr.2009.06.009
[5] Richter, L., Dietze, C., Hallmann, M., Ho, T.-M., Krueger, H., Lange, C.,
Sproewitz, T., Wagenbach, S., Witte, L., Barucci, A., Bellerose, J.,Okada, T., Yano, H., Bibring, J.-P., Biele, J., Ulamec, S., Block, J.,Boehnhardt, H., Bousquet, P., Koschny, D., and Nadalini, R., “Marco
Polo Surface Scout (MASCOT) —Study of an Asteroid Lander for the
Marco Polo Mission, ”60th International Astronautical Congress ,
International Astronautical Federation Paper IAC-09-A3.5.5, Oct. 2009,
pp. 1331 –1344.
[6] Dietze, C., Herrmann, F., Kub, S., Lange, C., Scharringhausen, M.,
Witte, L., Van Zoest, T., and Yano, H., “Landing and Mobility Concept
for the Small Asteroid Lander MASCOT on Asteroid 1999 JU3, ”61st
International Astronautical Congress , Vol. 11, International Astro-
nautical Federation Paper IAC-10-A3.5.8, Sept. 2010, pp. 9266 –9278.
[7] Berry, K., Sutter, B., May, A., Williams, K., Barbee, B. W., Beckman,
M., and Williams, B., “OSIRIS-REx Touch-And-Go (TAG) Mission
Design and Analysis, ”Advances in Astronautical Sciences , Vol. 149,
edited by Lisa R. Hardaway, Feb. 2013, pp. 667 –678.
[8] Lunghi, P., Lavagna, M., and Armellin, R., “A Semi-Analytical
Guidance Algorithm for Autonomous Landing, ”Advances in Space
Research , Vol. 55, No. 11, 2015, pp. 2719 –2738.
doi:10.1016/j.asr.2015.02.022
[9] Lantoine, G., and Braun, R. D., “Optimal Trajectories for Soft Landing
on Asteroids, ”AAS/AIAA Astrodynamics Conference 2007 , Vol. 129,
Advances in the Astronautical Sciences, edited by Ronald J. Proulx, andThomas F. Starchville, Jr., Mackinac Island, MI, Aug. 2007, pp. 447 –
468.
[10] Yang, H., and Xiaoli Bai, H. B., “Rapid Generation of Time-Optimal
Trajectories for Asteroid Landing via Convex Optimization, ”Journal of
Guidance, Control, and Dynamics , Vol. 40, No. 3, March 2017,
pp. 628 –641.
doi:10.2514/1.G002170[11] Furfaro, R., Cersosimo, D., and Wibben, D., “Asteroid Precision
Landing via Multiple Sliding Surfaces Guidance Techniques, ”Journal
of Guidance, Control and Dynamics , Vol. 36, No. 4, July –Aug. 2013,
pp. 1075 –1092.
doi:10.2514/1.58246
[12] Yang, H., Chen, Y., and Baoyin, H., “Fuel Optimal Guidance for
Soft Landing on Irregular Asteroids Using Sliding Mode Control, ”
64th International Astronautical Congress , International Astro-
nautical Federation Paper IAC-13-C1,3,9x17782, Sept. 2013,
pp. 4949 –4960.
[13] Lan, Q., Li, S., Yang, J., and Guo, L., “Finite-Time Soft Landing on
Asteroids Using Nonsingular Terminal Sliding Mode Control, ”
Transactions of the Institute of Measurement and Control , Vol. 36,
No. 2, 2014, pp. 216 –223.
doi:10.1177/0142331213495040
[14] Acikmese,B., and Ploen, S., “Convex Programming Approach to Powered
Descent Guidance for Mars Landing, ”Journal of Guidance, Control, and
Dynamics ,V o l .3 0 ,N o .5 ,S e p t . –Oct. 2007, pp. 1353 –1366.
doi:10.2514/1.27553
[15] Blackmore, L., Acikmese, B., and Scharf, D., “Minimum-Landing-
Error Powered-Descent Guidance for Mars Landing Using Convex
Optimization, ”Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics , Vol. 33,
No. 4, July –Aug. 2010, pp. 1161 –1171.
doi:10.2514/1.47202
[16] Acikmese, B., Carson, J., and Blackmore, L., “Lossless Convexification
of Nonconvex Control Bound and Pointing Constraints of the Soft
Landing Optimal Control Problem, ”IEEE Transaction on Control
System Technology , Vol. 21, No. 6, Nov. 2013, pp. 2104 –2113.
doi:10.1109/TCST.2012.2237346
[17] Lu, P., and Liu, X., “Autonomous Trajectory Planning for Rendezvous
and Proximity Operations by Conic Optimization,
”Journal of
Guidance, Control, and Dynamics , Vol. 36, No. 2, 2013, pp. 375 –389.
doi:10.2514/1.58436
[18] Boyd, S., and Vandenberghe, L., Convex Optimization , Cambridge
Univ. Press, Cambridge, 2004, Chaps. 1 –5.
[19] Pinson, R. M., “Autonomous Optimal Trajectory Design Employing
Convex Optimization for Powered Descent on an Asteroid, ”Ph.D.
Dissertation, Iowa State Univ., Ames, IA, 2016.
[20] Vallado, D., Fundamentals of Astrodynamics and Applications ,
Microcism Press, CA, 2013, Chap. 9, Appendix D.
[21] Takahashi, Y., Scheeres, D. J., and Werner, R. A., “Surface Gravity
Fields for Asteroids and Comets, ”Journal of Guidance, Control, and
Dynamics , Vol. 36, No. 2, March –April 2013, pp. 362 –374.
doi:10.2514/1.59144
[22] Scheeres, D. J., Orbital Motion in Strongly Perturbed Environments:
Applications to Asteroid, Comet and Planetary Satellite Orbiters ,
Springer, New York, 2012, Chap. 2.
[23] Werner, R. A., “The Gravitational Potential of a Homogeneous
Polyhedron or Don ’t Cut Corners, ”Celestial Mechanics and Dynamical
Astronomy , Vol. 59, No. 3, 1994, pp. 253 –278.
doi:10.1007/BF00692875
[24] Werner, R. A., and Scheeres, D. J., “Exterior Gravitation of a Polyhedron
Derived and Compared with Harmonic and Mascon Gravitation
Representations of Asteroid 4769 Castalia, ”Celestial Mechanics and
Dynamical Astronomy , Vol. 65, No. 3, 1997, pp. 313 –344.
doi:10.1007/BF00053511
[25] Takahashi, Y., and Scheeres, D. J., “Small Body Surface Gravity Fields
via Spherical Harmonic Expansions, ”Celestial Mechanics and
Dynamical Astronomy , Vol. 119, No. 2, June 2014, pp. 169 –206.
doi:10.1007/s10569-014-9552-9
[26] Coddington, E. A., and Carlson, R., Linear Ordinary Differential
Equations , SIAM, Philadelphia, 1997, Chap. 7.
[27] Pontryagin, L. S., Boltyanskii, V. G., Gramkreledze, Q. V., and
Mishchenko, E. F., The Mathematical Theory of Optimal Processes ,
Intersciences, New York, 1962, Chaps. 1, 2, 6.
[28] Brent, R. P., Algorithms for Minimization Without Derivatives , Prentice-
Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1973, Chap. 4, 5.
[29] Grant, M., and Boyd, S., “CVX: Matlab Software for Disciplined
Convex Programming, Version 2.0, ”April 2011, http://cvxr.com/cvx.
[30] Neese, C., “Small Body Radar Shape Models V2.0 EAR-A-5-DDR-
RADARSHAPE-MODELS-V2.0, NASA Planetary Data System, ”
2004, https://pds.nasa.gov/ds-view/pds/viewDataset.jsp?dsid=EAR-A-5-DDR-RADARSHAPE-MODELS-V2.0.
[31] Scheeres, D. J., Ostro, S. J., Hudson, R. S., and Werner, R. A., “Orbits
Close to Asteroid 4769 Castalia, ”Icarus , Vol. 121, No. 1, 1996,
pp. 67 –87.
doi:10.1006/icar.1996.007214
Article in Advance / PINSON AND LU
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA on February 5, 2018 | http://arc.aiaa.org | DOI: 10.2514/1.G003045

